Myth 2. Some people are just creative by nature.
As a creative person, people have probably told you that you were naturally gifted with creativity.
Creative things often come easy to you, so you probably believed them.
Then, when you reached a plateau in your skills, you might have thought,
I guess that's as good as I am.
While taking music lessons as a kid,
I'd catch on to things more quickly than some of the other students.
Often teachers would say things like,
you'll get this pretty easy, you're doing great,
or looks like natural talent there, or something similar.
This course led me to believe that I did in fact have a natural-born talent.
My mom played guitar and sang and wrote songs.
I must get my talent from her.
This led to frustration when things didn't come easy,
when things didn't feel natural,
when I actually had to work at things,
I'd give up, assuming I'd hit the limit of my talent,
and move on to the next thing that came easily.
Years later, after continually playing,
I noticed the chords I couldn't play before were now simple.
The notes I couldn't reach when singing now had power and clarity.
I learned that the more I did something,
the better I got.
The truth is,
every single person is born creative,
and stays creative throughout their life.
It's just some people practice more.
Some people exercise their curiosity more.
If you feel like you've hit a plateau,
or like you've used up your creative potential,
I'm here to tell you
that you have a limitless well
ready to explore.
Exercise.
Explore your past and current creativity.
What kind of things did you enjoy doing as a kid?
What did you like most about these things?
Are there any specific memories you have of doing art,
or music,
or other creative things as a kid?
What are the things you enjoy doing now?
What comes to mind when I ask the question,
what creative project do you want to work on most?
Now,
do the things from your childhood list
and your list of current interests
have anything in common?
Is there a way you could combine them at all?